# iFood Marketing Campaign

## This projets has a gol to maximize the results of a marketing campaign and generate value to the company.

#### This project was made by Alisson Lisboa.

# 1. Business Problem.

## The Company
Consider a well-established company operating in the retail food sector. Presently they have around
several hundred thousands of registered customers and serve almost one million consumers a year.
They sell products from 5 major categories: wines, rare meat products, exotic fruits, specially
prepared fish and sweet products. These can further be divided into gold and regular products. The
customers can order and acquire products through 3 sales channels: physical stores, catalogs and
the company’s website. Globally, the company had solid revenues and a healthy bottom line in the
past 3 years, but the profit growth perspectives for the next 3 years are not promising... For this
reason, several strategic initiatives are being considered to invert this situation. One is to improve
the performance of marketing activities, with a special focus on marketing campaigns.

## The Marketing Department
The marketing department was pressured to spend its annual budget more wisely. The CMO
perceives the importance of having a more quantitative approach when taking decisions, reason why
a small team of data scientists was hired with a clear objective in mind: to build a predictive model
which will support direct marketing initiatives. Desirably, the success of these activities will prove the
value of the approach and convince the more skeptical within the company.

## The Objective
The objective of the team is to build a predictive model that will produce the highest profit for the
next direct marketing campaign, scheduled for the next month. The new campaign, sixth, aims at
selling a new gadget to the Customer Database. To build the model, a pilot campaign involving
2.240 customers was carried out. The customers were selected at random and contacted by phone
regarding the acquisition of the gadget. During the following months, customers who bought the
offer were properly labeled. The total cost of the sample campaign was 6.720MU and the revenue
generated by the customers who accepted the offer was 3.674MU. Globally the campaign had a
profit of -3.046MU. The success rate of the campaign was 15%. The objective is of the team is to
develop a model that predicts customer behavior and to apply it to the rest of the customer base.
Hopefully, the model will allow the company to cherry-pick the customers that are most likely to
purchase the offer while leaving out the non-respondents, making the next campaign highly
profitable. Moreover, other than maximizing the profit of the campaign, the CMO is interested in
understanding to study the characteristic features of those customers who are willing to buy the
gadget.

# 2. Business Assumptions.

# 3. Solution Strategy

My strategy to solve this challenge was:

**Step 01. Data Description:** My goal is to use statistics metrics to identify data outside the scope of business.

**Step 02. Feature Engineering:** Derive new attributes based on the original variables to better describe the phenomenon that will be modeled.

**Step 03. Data Filtering:** Filter rows and select columns that do not contain information for modeling or that do not match the scope of the business.

**Step 04. Exploratory Data Analysis:** Explore the data to find insights and better understand the impact of variables on model learning.

**Step 05. Data Preparation:** Prepare the data so that the Machine Learning models can learn the specific behavior.

**Step 06. Feature Selection:** Selection of the most significant attributes for training the model.

**Step 07. Machine Learning Modelling:** Machine Learning model training

**Step 08. Hyperparameter Fine Tunning:** Choose the best values for each of the parameters of the model selected from the previous step.

**Step 09. Convert Model Performance to Business Values:** Convert the performance of the Machine Learning model into a business result.

**Step 10. Deploy Modelo to Production:** Publish the model in a cloud environment so that other people or services can use the results to improve the business decision.

# 4. Top 3 Data Insights

**Hypothesis 01:**

**True/False.**

**Hypothesis 02:**

**True/False.**

**Hypothesis 03:**

**True/False.**

# 5. Machine Learning Model Applied

# 6. Machine Learning Model Performance

# 7. Business Results

# 8. Conclusions

# 9. Lessons Learned

# 10. Next Steps to Improve

# LICENSE

# All Rights Reserved - Comunidade DS 2021
